
## `correlates`

Analysis of genomic correlates of recombination rate in _C. reinhardtii_.

### `ant.py`/`antr.py`/`add_ld_rho.py`

These scripts are used to parse a large 'annotation table' based off
the reference genome of _C. reinhardtii_ (v5.3). `add_ld_rho.py` creates
a column in the annotation table containing site-specific recombination
rates from LDhelmet - the resulting annotation table is then parsed with
`antr.py` instead of `ant.py`. 

### `rcmb_correlates.py`

This script uses the above annotation table (once rho values have been added)
to calculate recombination rate at each annotation (i.e. intronic, UTR, CDS,
etc) in windows of a specified size for a specified chromosome. The script
first creates a 'lookup string' for the input chromosome before using that when
parsing through rho values.  It will also subdivide intergenic regions into
gene-proximate and 'intergenic' regions -- the `--gene-context` argument can be
used to specify the size of gene-proximate regions.

### `correlates_analysis.Rmd`

R Markdown file containing analysis of recombination rates in each annotation.

### `gc_calc_rho.py`

This script uses the annotation table to estimate GC content and rho in sliding
windows across an input chromosome. GC content is estimated from input fastas
by using a 'dumb consensus', where for a given site it will select whichever
nucleotide is present with a frequency > 0.7. Below 0.7 results in the base
being called as ambiguous and denoted as N.

### `gc_analysis.Rmd`

R Markdown file containing analysis of GC content and rho (i.e. in files
generated with `gc_calc_rho.py`). 

### `hotspot_annotation.py`

Uses output from `find_hotspots.py` above alongside the annotation table to get
the number of sites from each annotation that are in recombination hotspots. 

### `hotspot_enrichment_analysis.Rmd`

Uses files generated by the script above to estimate which annotations
are enriched for hotspots.
